Pet Weight:
Always seek advice from your vet for a healthy weight for your animal. Being obese can cause serious health issues for your pet, even though it appears adorable. Arthritis, joint problems, heart issues, breathing problems, and diabetes are all examples. It is important to ensure that your pet gets sufficient physical exercise every day.

Vaccinations:
Dental examinations and de-worming are two examples of times your vet may require your pet to have been vaccinated. 
Your pet should be vaccinated every year, at a minimum. 

Socialization: 
It is crucial that your dog is able to happily be around other dogs and to do this you need to work on their socialization skills. While you may not think this is an issue if you don’t have any other dogs at home, you limit the places you and your dog can go if they can’t be around others.

Pet Insurance:
The cost of having a dog can soon start to add up, especially with dog prices rising all the time. However, while your dog could probably live without that expensive dog bed or hundreds of chew toys, you cannot afford to skip pet insurance. Many new dog owners make the mistake of assuming that pet insurance is just another added extra to the long list of expenses, but the cost of unexpected vet bills will be a whole lot worse.

Pain:
Unfortunately, pets are extremely good at hiding their pain. This means pet owners should always keep a close eye on their animals' eating habits, behaviors, and patterns.
When pets are vocal about pain, it is usually a sign that it is severe. Other signs of pain include behavior changes, excessive grooming, changes in eating and drinking, and guarding behavior.

Pet-proofing:
Make sure that your pet can’t get a hold of any wires, remotes, shoes, or poisonous plants that they can chew and possibly eat. 

Training:
Start training early. You don’t have to wait until your dog is six-months old before you start teaching him or her how to sit, come, stay, and walk on a leash. Likewise, invest some time in training new-to-you adult dogs, too. 
When training your dog, always use voice commands and visual cues. Never resort to hitting your pet in order to teach him or her to obey. This will only make your dog defensive and harder to train. 